We've now got our list of that is rendered on screen all the albums we got back from the adjacent endpoint
but we did get a little bit of a worry message down here something about a key property.
So this is a little bit of a gotcha with react whenever we show components that are in an array.
And that is exactly what we're doing here with the render Haldane's method we are producing an array
and rendering it inside of our GSX here each property or that each component inside of that array must
have a key property associated with it.
The whole purpose of this is just for performance concerns.
It's how re-act make sure that as it renders a list of components it is intelligently listing a or sees
me rendering or updating a very particular component.
So to fix it I place my GSX on a new line just to get myself a little bit of space.
And then inside of the text tag I'm going to add on a key property and the key property here is what
re-act is going to use to figure out which item in the list.
It is updating at any given time.
So the only requirement of this key property is that it must be unique against all of the other elements
in the array.
And number two we also must make sure that it is the same value across rebounders renders the list.
So a common mistake to make is to say oh well I'll just use the index of this album with in the array
that is not something that's guaranteed to be consistent across three renderers.
And so it's not really appropriate for use as a key in this case we're working with the list of albums
each title is actually kind of sufficiently randomized or axis to be unique.
So I will use a key of the album's title on actual applications.
By far the best property used for a key is if your resource has an ID associated with it and you can
just use a key of the records ID right here.
In this case our Allans do not have an ID so we don't get the benefit of that.
All right let's refresh and it looks like the airwing way.
So everything is fantastic now.
So back to what we were working on right now we have the name property or excuse me title property of
each album display and with that you know not too useful not at all.
We want to see a lot more detail related to each album.
So as I mentioned previously we will create a new component called album detail and album detail is
going to take one album as a prop or property and it's going to render a lot of information about that
single album.
So in this section we're going to start working on this new album detail component.
Remember the process we go through each time we make a new component we make a new file.
So in my component's directory I will make a new file and I'm going to call it album detail.
Yes.
And then inside of here we will put down our boiler plate.
So I will import re-act from react and I will import both view and text from re-act native.
Now this is something we're going to start asking you had a time when every start creating a component
whether or not this needs to be a class based component or a functional component.
In this case for the album detail we have something that is just showing some data to the user.
It is solely a presentational component.
And so I think that this can stand to be just a functional component because we do not need lifecycle
methods and we do not need to get access to state.
So I will define my functional component
and then I will export it as by default
go it's now the last thing I want to do before we go too far here.
I want to go back to my album list and just import over there.
So we've got it nice and ready to make use of.
So back inside of album list I will import the album detail.
And now we need to consider what the rules are you see me what the relative path to that file is.
What's in the same directory this time album list is in the same directory as album detail.
So I will say in the current directory slash give me album detail go finally inside of render albums
right here.
I don't really want to be showing any text anymore.
I want to show in album detail.
So I'm going to replace the text tag with album detail
like so.
OK so this is looking good.
But now let's consider it kind of like the next challenge here.
I am showing many album details.
I want to show one album detail per album.
That means I need to somehow communicate somehow communicate from this parent component album list down
into the child component.
The album detail.
Hey I want you to show this very particular album that I like to do some communication there.
So if you recall to do communication from a parent to a child we make use of the props system and react.
So I want to pass the album down to album detail as a prop so no longer do I want to try to show any
album title here because this is no longer text and song and I'd take that out now that I am not passing
in any text and hearing that I should be making this a self-closing component.
So I'm going to remove the closing tag over here and I'm going to make this into a self-closing component
by adding in a forward slash right before the closing bracket.
Finally I need to pass down this album as a prop 2 album detail and to pass it down as a prop so whenever
I want to pass the prop I'll write out the name of the prop equals and then inside of braces I will
list the variables I want to pass down to the child.
So album is album now on inside of the album detail.
I will have a prop of props Daut album and that will be equal to my album.
One thing I want to point out in great detail here.
I'm going to point out several times is not the name of the props very much like the name of the state
that we were working with earlier is completely arbitrary.
I do not have to call this thing right here.
I do not have to call this album just because the variable is also called album.
There is absolutely no tie between the property name and the variable.
So this instead of album I could call it like record and now inside of album detail I would refer to
props not record.
Or it can be prog could be like data.
I don't know anything we want so just to make sure that its really clear the name of the variable up
here does not have to match the name of the prop it just ever so happens that with a lot of the code
that I write they generally end up as being the same good.
So this is looking pretty darn good.
I think that in this component album list we are no longer making use of the text tag anymore up top
so I'm going to remove that text tag just to keep our imports nice and clean make sure we're not importing
anything that we don't need then just to make sure that everything works ok.
You know flip back over to the album detail and let us consume that prop that we just added.
Let's make sure that we're actually making use of that album.
So inside of my album detail component I'm going to return some amount of GSX I I suggest you return
a view tag and it's cited that also some text.
So I want to show again just to keep like you know the implementation we had before without the album
detail equal to what it is now with the album detail on show just like the name or the title of the
album.
So I need to receive the prop that we passed down from album list inside of album detail so I'm going
to receive my props object on that props object.
I will have access to prop's album title and remember it is specifically album that I'm making reference
to here because inside of album list when I rendered the album detail I said hey pass down this thing
as a prop called album.
All right.
So this is looking pretty good at the only warning we have here again is because I've been returning
some amount of JSA are all I'm doing out of this federal function is returning something so it's saying
hey if you're just returning something don't use the curly braces with the return key word again purely
stylistic.
We are going to add in some other code inside of here and in the future section.
So right now I'm just going to kind of leave it as it is.
Let's refresh our simulator and make sure everything is still working.
So refresh the simulator and yet we still got our list of albums appearing on the screen so it looks
perfect.
We have now refactored our text tag inside of the album list to instead use this album detailer component.
Let's get to the next section and focus on making this album detail look a lot better than how it already
looks.